
The birth rates were drastically reduced across all clusters 
for both time periods. Conversly, the life expectancy rose 
across the board. The biggest improvements came from cluster 
3 who managed to get their birth rates down from 43.8 in 1953 
to 19.12 in 2008. This cluster's life expectancy also increased
from 56.3 to 69.7 over the same time period.
Cluser 1 was the biggest cluster for both time periods and also 
had the lowest birth rates and highest life expectancy for both
years.
The cluster populations did seem to vary across the different 
years but seemed to show certain patterns, for example, cluster
1 seemed to be populated mostly by european and north American
countries, cluster 2 was mostly populated by African and Middle 
Eastern nations and cluster 3 had a proportionally higher number 
of North African and island nations.
In terms of the scatter plot, the data points were much more 
spread out across the chart in 1953, with a slightly higher density
in the bottom right hand corner. While in 2008 there was a much higher
denisty in the top left hand corner of the graph, attributed to the 
global reduction in mean birth rates and increase in life expectancy.
There were only a few stragglers toward the bottom right corner, all from
struggling, under developed countries.


Unlike when looking at the nations at different times seperately, when 
looking at them all together, the first cluster is by far in the worst shape,
while the second is showing the best stats. Cluster 3 has remained steady
in second place.
In comparing 1953 United States to 2008 South Africa, we can see that 
South Africa has the superior (lower) birth rates but is still not ahead in
terms of life expectancy.
There are alot of African nations from 2008 (as well as a few countries 
from the Middle East) in the first cluster, which is otherwise overwhelmingly 
populated by countries by 1953. This is obviously because these countries are 
active in wars and low in technological advancement. They are also 
are still reproducing way too much on average and because they do not 
have the best access to medical care, the result is a shorter life span.
In cluster 2 we can see alot of Western European and North American countries
(as well as Australia) from 1953, in a cluster dominated by 08 nations.
This is because these countries were well ahead of the rest of the world in 
the 50s (especially Western Europe, even to this day) in terms of cultural 
development (having less children) and in terms of medical resources, which
extend the average life span.